# Swarm Monitor

Convert events generated by a swarm of [Actyx machines](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@actyx/machine-runner) to a [Protocol Buffers](https://protobuf.dev/) format and forward them to a communication endpoint.

This repository contains `smcli`, a CLI tool for:
* translating Actyx events to Protocol Buffers format;
* and generating code that forwards translated events to some endpoint.

The repository also contains several examples of forwarding events from a swarm to a monitor based on the [join-actors](https://github.com/a-y-man/join-actors) library.


## Quick start guide

This guide explains the usage of the `smcli` tool via an example. In four steps, this guide shows how to:
1. Install `smcli`.
2. Generate Protocol Buffers message types corresponding to the events of an example [Actyx swarm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@actyx/machine-runner) modelling an automated factory.
3. Generate a *forwarder* acting as a bridge between the swarm and a monitoring process consuming events from the swarm.
4. Implement a Scala *monitor* based on the [join-actors](https://github.com/a-y-man/join-actors) library to consume the events from the swarm.


### 1. Install `smcli`
To install `smcli`, please run:
```
cd smcli && npm i    \
    && npm run build \
    && npm link
```

### 2. Generating Protocol Buffers message types
Protocol Buffers are language-neutral, platform-neutral data format for serializing structured data. The `smcli` tool translates the event specification of a swarm to a set of Protocol Buffers message types. This allows a simple, compact representation of events and allows implementing monitors that consume the events in a variety of languages.

The directory `swarms/warehouse-factory/` contains the implementation of an example swarm modelling an automated factory. To continue along this guide, please cd to this directory.

The formats of the events emitted by a swarm are specified by defining a number of constructor types referred to as [`Factories`](https://github.com/Actyx/machines/blob/386149638c608c8b1436bfe3eb5636ee4f83a5b8/machine-runner/src/design/event.ts#L207). These type constructors serve as a blueprint for the resulting event instances. The specification of the events of our example swarm is found in `swarms/warehouse-factory/src/protocol.ts` and contains the following:

```typescript
export namespace Events {
  export const partReqEvent = MachineEvent.design(partRequest).withPayload<PartPayload>()
  export const partOKEvent = MachineEvent.design(partOK).withPayload<PartPayload>()
  export const positionEvent = MachineEvent.design(position).withPayload<PositionPayload>()
  export const closingTimeEvent = MachineEvent.design(closingTime).withPayload<ClosingTimePayload>()
 ...
}
```

To generate Protocol Buffers message types from this specificatoin of events please run:

```
smcli ax2pb src/protocol.ts \ # input file
    -o protos/factory.proto \ # output file
    -b                      \ # events inlcude branch-tracking information
    -c                        # set up scripts to facilitate translation between TypeScript and Protocol Buffers at runtime
```

This command reads the event specification in `src/protocol.ts` and translates the specification to a set of Protocol Buffers message types storing the output in `protos/factory.proto`. Additionally, the command sets up scripts to facilitate generating concrete Protocol Buffers messages at runtime.

The details of how events are encoded to Protocol Buffers can be found in [smcli/README.md].

### 3. Generate a *forwarder*
Having defined the Protocol Buffers message format, the next step is to generate a forwarder. The forwarder receives all events from the swarm. On receiving an event, it transforms it to a Protocol Buffers message


### 4. Scala monitor based on [join-actors](https://github.com/a-y-man/join-actors)
The



### Run the swarm and the monitor


Through an example use case, this guide shows how to: